Pastor Doug is back.
He just got back from Greece, from leading a footsteps of Paul Tripp.
So we're so excited for you to hear a powerful word from him.
So glad you're back, Pastor Doug.
Thanks, Katie.
Hey, Calvary, it is so good to be back.
You know, I was rushing through the airport on Friday in Istanbul, trying to retrieve a laptop.
I left on a connecting flight, and I was thinking, I'm going to miss this weekend's service.
I'm going to miss all of you, but by the grace of God, I made it through Customs and Backout and got the laptop, and I'm here.
So good.
You know, it's something so special to travel the footsteps of Paul, to see our origin story, to stand in the place where Lydia, the first convert of the Christian church in Europe, was baptized.
to stand on Mars Hill and preach and realize that Paul preached to the men of Athens 2,000 years ago.
And we have this beautiful unbroken connection from those first followers of Jesus to now.
These are real places.
These are real people.
The Bible is true.
It's a living and active word.
It can change your life.
He didn't just do it back then, but we're praying, God, do it again, do it again, do it again in this generation, right, church?
This is what it means.
for one generation to command the work of God to another.
So we are in the book of 2 Samuel, grab your Bibles, open 2 Samuel, chapter 23.
We're almost finished with this book and I'm sort of disappointed because I have so enjoyed going through these books, the first and second Samuel.
As you grab your Bible, 2 Samuel, chapter 23, if you don't have a Bible, raise your hand wherever you are.
Bibles are being passed out, especially if you're a guest, take one, make it your own.
You could also scan the code that's on the screen behind me or the seat in front of you.
You'll get notes for this message, questions for your groups, and you're going to find out about a baptism that's happening on Saturday.
Everyone say Saturday.
Saturday.
If you don't have plans, 830 where Atlantic Boulevard meets the Atlantic Ocean, right by the pier, we are doing our last baptism of the year.
So if you've never been baptized and you're a follower of Jesus,
I want you to ask yourself the question, is this Saturday, can I change all my plans and can I show up here because this is a command of Jesus, it's a pledging of her conscience to God, it's a beautiful representation to anyone who will see.
And even if you're a Christian, you've been baptized, show up and watch life change happen because it's this relationship with Jesus that changes everything.
And we celebrate those moments, so join us at the beach next Saturday, 830.
And now I want us to take a moment to pray.
We are on this 40-year sort of journey of the first generation of Calvary, looking to the next generation, or in a vision of generosity.
How can we give like the people first gave so we can enjoy the spaces that we're in?
And how can we pray the same prayers together?
And it's not a coincidence that today is day 28 in our prayer journey.
And here are the three prayers that we can pray, pray for one
Torn countries, Lord, protect those suffering from the effects of war around the world, grant leaders wisdom and guidance toward justice and reconciliation, and bring peace, healing, and revival to people in those places.
When we think about what's about to happen in Gaza, what's about to happen in Israel, 20 hostages who've been captive for over two years, we pray our freed in the next 24 hours.
And yeah, we can celebrate that and we wanna pray for every part of that process because it's such a fragile,
fragile truths, and for all those vulnerable people who are hungry and homeless and gossip that support and care would come to them, that even though we've seen the face of evil, we know that God can overcome evil with good.
And this is the power of the gospel.
And we want to be a praying church.
We watch Ukraine and Russia and a war that seems senseless.
In the last 24 or 40 hours, we've seen pastors in China be arrested.
And so we live in a world where we can sometimes feel helpless, but we are not helpless because we can pray.
And so let's join together and pray that our God would be at work.
Father, we pray for peace, peace and Jerusalem, peace over your people.
We pray that you would allow this exchange of hostages to go without incident, that men and women who have been captive can be free and taste free and the families can be reunited, that hungry families, homeless families can
can get much needed support, and that you would somehow bring hope and revival to all these people, groups who don't know you.
Father, we know we're not in control, but we know that you are, and you hear prayers, you hear the cry of your people.
For our brothers and sisters in China who have been in prison for their faith, for their leadership God, bring them freedom, give boldness so your church can expand.
In this nation, we see this quiet revival of young people preaching the gospel on college campuses, on high school campus.
God, we pray that you would bring
the flames of revival.
So God, as we open your word today to see what it means to be a warrior.
God, give us that spirit, give us that heart.
We pray this together.
In Jesus' name, amen.
In the twilight of David's reign, when famine gripped the weary land, the Gibeonites cried for justice, and the king made amends with sorrow.
Giants fell by warrior's hands.
Their courage sung an Israel song.
From David's lips rose a psalm of praise.
My refuge, my rock, my strength, my shield.
Yet pride led the king to count the people.
Misplaced trust brought judgment swift.
A plague swept through, but mercy stirred and sacrificed, turned to spare, to hope.
God's promise endured through failure, a dynasty upheld by his eternal plan.
From David's line, a king would come to reign forever with justice and mercy.
We are shaped by the stories that we tell and by the songs that we sing.
I mean, look at any group of people in any country through the history of the world.
If you look at the stories, they tell.
If you look at the songs, they're saying they give people a sense of identity.
Who are we as a people?
And what is our purpose?
What is our mission in life?
This is the power of stories and the power of songs.
And we see this in 2 Samuel.
David is a singer, the hero of Israel's songs.
And we see these amazing stories of how God used ordinary men and women.
And we see these images of courage and mercy and faith in action.
And it forms us to go, am I that type of person in today?
We're going to read David's last words.
These are his last public statements about who God is and who he is and what's next.
Last weekend, we heard his Psalm of praise, a summary song of his life.
And today, we're gonna watch him look forward to what's gonna happen in the next generation and the generations to come.
And this should make us ask the question, God, what legacy will I leave?
If David's gonna give us his last words and we're gonna see his legacy, then what would I say?
What legacy would I leave?
And this is important for the living to take to heart because if you right now don't know, I don't know what my legacy is.
I don't know how I'll be remembered.
I don't know what significant thing I've ever done in my life.
Listen, if you don't know the answer to that question today, you can know by learning from David's own example.
And so let's read David's last words.
Second Samuel chapter 23.
These are the last words of David.
The inspired utterance of David.
son of Jesse, the utterance of the man exalted by the Most High, the man anointed by the God of Jacob, the hero of Israel's songs.
The spirit of the Lord spoke through me.
His word was on my tongue.
The God of Israel spoke, the rock of Israel said to me, when one rules over people in righteousness, when he rules in the fear of God, he's like the light
of the morning and sunrise, on a cloudless morning, like the brightness after rain that brings grass from the earth.
If my house were not right with God, surely he would not have made with me an everlasting covenant, arranged and secured in every part.
Surely he would not bring to fruition my salvation and grant me every desire, but evil men are all to be cast aside like thorns, which are not gathered with the hand
Whoever touches thorns uses a tool of iron or a shaft or a spear.
And they are burned up where they lie.
David is telling, this is what God spoke to me.
He has the sense that God is speaking through him.
Maybe your Bible uses the word oracle, a divine utterance.
David has to understand that he's speaking by the spirit of God.
He's not just writing down song lyrics.
He's not just writing down stories.
He has this
Clear sense in his intimate relationship with God that God is telling him what to write and telling him what to say over and over.
You see this idea, the spirit spoke through me.
God, the God of Israel spoke.
This is a divine utterance.
And then in quotations, what does God say?
That good leaders are like when the sun rises, they can be dependent on.
You know, every day the sun rises.
in a very consistent way, it reminds us that God is faithful, God is worthy.
How many of you are grateful that God never changes?
That he is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
God can be depended on.
And when the sun rises, as the dew comes, it brings grass that grows to the rise of the sun you can depend on.
And it brings flourishing and wisdom and justice reign when God's people lead and lead well, lead as he leads.
And so David's reminded himself,
Once the son of Jesse, verse one, I was just a little boy, teenager watching my dad sheep and God, he exalted me to this place being king.
Not only did he exalt me, he anointed me.
He gave me the anointing of his spirit.
In Acts chapter two, well, we're going to get a sense from the New Testament that David
He saw a head like a prophet to the king who would come from his own line.
That king's name is Jesus.
Look at these phrases in verse five.
He says, God, you've made with me an everlasting covenant.
David knows it's not just about him and his family.
It's about the king who would come from his line.
And then he says, this covenant has been arranged and secured in every part and the fruit of it will be salvation.
David knows he can't save people, but he knows the Messiah who comes will save them.
And so as we read these last words of David, David's not saying, look at me.
He's saying, look at the one to come.
And we know his name is Jesus.
And so I want you to read these last words of David with his gospel lens.
It's not just about what was happening then.
It's a picture of what's going to happen in the future.
This is his,
Oracle.
Verse 6 and 7 says, not everyone will follow God.
Not everyone will follow this new king.
There are some people who refuse to follow and they will experience judgment.
So all of us have a choice.
Do we follow the king or do we pick our own king?
This is the question of the entire book of 1st and 2nd Samuel.
And so when you think about songs and stories that shape you, I just want you to think for a moment.
Has there been a song, a particular song that has shaped you?
as a Christian, as a follower of Jesus.
I think about certain songs in my life.
Like when I had to do difficult things, there's a song called, You Make Me Brave.
And when I feel this lack of courage, I play this song, it's sort of like a battle song to remind me who I am and remind me the mission I'm on and the king I serve.
And listen, you don't have to be able to sing well to sing a battle song.
How many of you guys, just be honest, you can't sing, right?
If you don't think you sing, that's a lot of you.
Good thing we have a worship and they can sing, listen.
So here's a little trick.
I can't sing.
But if you get in your car and turn your stare up so loud, you can't hear yourself.
You sound like Brandon Lake or Phil Wickham.
You know what I'm saying?
So there are moments where I listen to certain songs.
Like good grace, the song we just sang.
And it gives me this great sense of hope and faith and courage.
My wife, the song, Oceans Taping Steps, Taking Steps to Faith for Hurt, it is well with my soul.
I'm not sure if there's a certain song that gives you courage or gives you hope or helps you take the next step or do the hard thing, but these songs, they can shape our minds and hearts to be the people that God has called us to be.
Because on our own, we lose focus and on our own,
We lose ourselves sometimes in a good song and a good reminder in these last words can reframe us.
And so David's now going to spend the rest of his final words describing his mighty men.
Why describing his mighty men?
Because David's legacy didn't just lie in the giant that he killed when he was a teenager.
It lied in the men that he left behind him that would kill giants in their generation.
Do you understand?
David did not do what he did all by himself.
There were these mighty men.
And we're going to see this phrase, mighty warriors.
And I'm going to teach you some Hebrew today.
So get ready.
It's a simple word.
The mighty warriors.
These are the special forces in David's army.
This is the Hebrew word.
It's Geborim.
Everyone say Geborim.
Oh, man.
That was.
Okay, mighty warriors means you gotta say it like it means something, like you're in a battle, like it, this is life or death, this is who you are.
So let's say Geburim and the kind of three, let's say it like we meet it.
One, two, three.
All right, you hear that?
Some of you guys just woke up, like whoa, whoa, listen, listen.
Geborim means the mighty warriors of God.
And David's going to, in his legacy, in his philosophy, there's going to be a description of all these mighty men who fought these courageous battles.
And we're going to get a list of 37 men or 37 mighty men.
The whole last half of this chapter is all their names.
But particularly, there's a focus on just a few at the very beginning.
And we're going to read who these mighty men are.
Look at verse eight.
These are the names of David's mighty warriors.
That's the word gibberine.
Joshua Bashabeth, a take a minute, was the chief of the three.
He raised his spear against 800 men whom he killed in one encounter.
Next to him was Eleazar, the son of Dodai, the O'Hight.
As one of the three mighty warriors, he was with David when they taunted the Philistines, gathered at past Damim for battle.
Then the Israelites retreated, but Eleazar stood his ground and struck down the Philistines till his hand grew tired and froze to his sword.
The Lord brought about a great victory that day.
The troops returned to Eleazar, but only to strip the dead.
Next to him was Shama, the son of Ege, the harewright.
When the Philistines banded together at a place where there was a field full of lentils, Israel's troops fled from them.
But Shama took his stand in the middle of the field.
He defended it and struck the Philistines down.
And the Lord brought about a great victory.
Well, what's happening here?
We hear of the 30 plus mighty men.
There are, there's three in particular.
These are the men of men, the warriors of warriors.
I call them the ballers.
There's Joshua being, what you call it, JB.
There's Elie Azar and Shama.
Listen, your kids need to know these guys' names.
This is better than any Disney movie, any Marvel superhero, better than Iron Man, better than the Hulk, better than Black Widow, any of them.
These stories are meant to shape the heart and mind of God's people to say, how do we fight against evil?
How do we defend our king?
And so, Shama's the first guy.
Shama kills 800 men in one encounter.
I want to see that in a movie.
I mean, that's pretty wild.
Eleazar, he's known for taunting the Philistine army.
It seems crazy to taunt someone more powerful than yourself, but this is what LEA's R does.
Now, I was just in Greece on a New Testament tour, and one of the places we stopped was a place called Thermopylae.
Anybody ever hear of the Spartan 300?
300 men that fight an entire Persian army.
They're completely outnumbered, and Xerxes says to Leonidas, he says, surrender your weapons.
You're outnumbered.
You know what Leonidas replied?
Come and get them.
I love that.
This is Eleazar.
He is taunting the enemy.
There's more of them than there are of the men of Israel, but he stands his ground, and here's the crazy stuff.
As the Philistines come, his own men, they retreat past him, which is not a good sign.
And he stands in this field, and he defends that field, and has been only returned to clear the bodies.
And when they see how he's going to try to get the sword out of his hand, they have to peel his fingers off of his sword.
Now, this is not just a story about back then.
Listen, this is a story for us.
You see, what is the Bible call for the Christian?
The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God.
I want to give you this image.
You are standing your ground and the enemies coming like a flood, but no weapon formed against us will prosper and you can stand your ground and you know
that greater is he that is in you, that he that is in the world.
So you don't have to fear.
You don't have to be scared because he is with you.
Now, Eliezer, he takes us to another level.
He's not just on defense.
He's on offense.
He's taunting the enemy.
Now again, I was just on this Bible, I was in Ephesus and I was reminded in Ephesus that these demons are
having a conversation with these men who are trying to cast them out.
And here's what the demons say to these seven sons of a high priest.
They say, we know who Jesus is, and we know who Paul is, but who are you?
Now what happened next?
You gotta read Ephesians chapter 13, but check this out.
The devil and the demons, no Paul's name.
Do the demons know your name?
Or are you just a person who's
sitting on your chair, and your whole Christian life is an hour and a half on a Sunday, and you love the songs, and you love that warm feeling being with God's people.
But that's all it is for you.
The demons don't have to know your name because they don't fear you.
LEAs are saying, agiba ring is someone who stands with conviction and courage, hand fused to the sword and says, come and get it.
You understand?
That's a gibo ream.
Everyone say gibo ream.
We say, Holy Spirit, make us these men, make us these women, the mighty men, the mighty women of God who aren't afraid to stand in the field and say, come and get it.
These three, Shama, Eleazar.
And now we have Shama or J.B. Eleazar.
Shama, Shama stands in a field of lentils and defends it.
He's defending what?
Lentils, he's defending food, food for his family.
The Philistines want to come and take the food for his family, the food for his people, and there's something about him that says, even if I die in this field, I die for my family, I die for my people, I die with conviction, but I'm going to fight this enemy because no one's taking this food from my family.
You understand?
We need men and women who want to defend this house and defend our families and take great risks for God.
This is the mentality of a warrior.
And so David is saying, these songs that we sing and these stories that we tell, they shape the people of God, these are the three mighty warriors who lead the other warriors.
Now, how did they become these three?
Look at verse 13.
During the harvest time, three of the 30 chief warriors came down to David at the cave of the dolem.
while a band of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Raphael.
And at that time, David was in the stronghold and the Philistine garrison was at Bethlehem.
And David longed for water and said, oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem.
So the three mighty warriors broke through the Philistine lines, drew water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem and carried it back to David, but he refused to drink it.
Instead, he poured it out before the Lord.
far be it for me, Lord, to do this," he said.
Is it not the blood of men who went at the risk of their lives?
And David would not drink it.
Such are the exploits of the three mighty warriors.
What?
Of the 30-plus warriors, these three stand out because they were listening to their king one day saying, I'm so homesick.
I'm tired of being on the run.
I'm tired of the enemy being all around me.
I just, if I could just have a glass of water from that well.
And they overhear the request of the king.
They travel 25 miles.
They fight their way through enemy lines.
They get back with the water.
And the king is like, oh, wow.
You guys risk your life for this.
And I'm not worthy of that sacrifice.
And he takes this glass of water and he just
Or is it out to God because God's the only one who's worthy?
If I'm Shama and JV, I know he's not like, what?
But then I think there's this moment, that's why we love our king.
Because it's not about him.
It's about the God he serves.
There's something so beautiful about that.
David understands he can't
He can't take something that's only something you give to God.
And while there's another moment where another king is about to die for his people, his name is Jesus, the descendant David talks about.
And the eve of his arrests and crucifixion, a woman named Mary, she pours out this vile, pure nard of perfume.
It's worth one year's wages, 50 grand, 60 grand, 70 grand.
She breaks it and she anoints Jesus.
He receives this as an act of worship.
He says that she's the only person who recognizes, I'm the king, I'm about to die for my people.
These three men were about to die for their king.
Now the king is gonna die for the people.
This is a totally different type of king.
He is the only one who deserves the worship of his people.
David recognized that the only king to worship, the only hero of the story is Jesus Christ the king, right?
And we see this right here.
And so here's the question for us as New Testament Christians.
What does a battle and a glass of water have to do with us?
Everything.
Have you ever offered something extravagant to your king?
Something that cost you something because he's worthy of it.
And if you've ever given so generously, you didn't know how God would provide.
Have you ever given your life?
Have you ever sacrificed your time?
Have you ever done something that you maybe didn't want to do, but you knew it was the right thing and you knew he was worthy of it?
And you realize,
This is my act of worship for everything he's done for me.
There's nothing I wouldn't do for him.
This is what we see in this passage, these mighty men.
And we see the early followers of Jesus.
What did they do?
They poured out their lives, their very lives for Jesus because he gave his life for them.
And Jesus said, the kingdom of God is
advancing.
Listen to how he says this to his early disciples.
He says, from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has been forcefully advancing and forceful men lay hold of it.
What's Jesus talking about?
He's not saying, I've come to forgive your sins and give you peace and joy and you have a great life and you're always going to get green lights and there's always going to be rainbows and they're always going to be open doors.
Enjoy your life.
No, Jesus did come to forgive your sin.
He did come to free you from the trap of the enemy.
But then he called you into battle.
When you get saved, you enter into a spiritual battle.
The kingdom of heaven is forcefully advancing and there's violence.
The kingdom of heaven suffers of violence and the violence taken by force.
There's this real spiritual battle that happens when you become a Christian and your eyes begin to see evil is real.
But we don't have to have a spirit of fear, but a spirit of power and love and a sound mind.
Evil is real, but no weapon formed against us.
His people will prosper.
And so we walk toward the danger in the power of his spirit, knowing that he is our king and the victory has already been guaranteed.
And so this is what we learn from David's mighty men.
And so even though God is the one who gets all the glory and the honor, well, these men get honorable mention.
They get to share the glory of God.
We don't take or steal the glory of God, but he wants to share it with us.
And so we see these examples all through the Bible.
When Gebarim mighty warriors for God have battled for God and showed up for God, we see these lists in the Bible like Hebrews chapter 11, a whole chapter dedicated to men and women, New Testament, Gebarim.
Men and women in the Old Testament and in the New, who would live their lives for Jesus as examples.
We see Romans chapter 16, a whole list of names, 36 names of Paul's associates.
He did great things to establish the church of Jesus in the early years.
And we see this in Hebrews chapter 13.
Remember your leaders who spoke the word of God to you.
Consider the outcome of their way of life and imitate their faith.
How did all these warriors become warriors?
Because they heard the stories
They sang the songs and they imitated these mighty men.
You see, Geburim are not born.
They are made.
Let me say it again.
Mighty warriors forgot are not born.
They're made.
They're formed.
They're shaped by the example of the people around them.
So how did all these mighty men become mighty men?
If you go back to the story, they met David when he was in a cave on the run as a fugitive.
There were 400 of them.
The description of these 400 men, when they first met David, they were in debt, broke, in distress, their lives were a mess, and they were discontent.
These are the three D's you do not want to have in an army.
In debt, distressed, and discontent.
And maybe you're surrounded by people who are in debt.
I always borrowed money from you.
In distress, they always got stress and problems and they're discontent.
They're not happy about anything in life.
And you're like, God, I can't work with that.
Guess what?
David did.
and he formed these men into the greatest fighting force that Israel ever knew, right?
So don't complain about the people around you who are in debt or in distress or discontent.
Say, God, you gave me these men and women, helped me to train them.
David would say, God, you trained my hands for battle.
So now I'm gonna train the men around me to fight.
I'm gonna teach them how to fight.
I'm gonna give them the mindset of what it means to fight for the king.
And this is, again, a beautiful example.
And one of the guys who,
who embodies this is the man named Abishai.
Abishai is always showing up when he's next to King David.
He's the guy who says, I'll go on the mission with you.
I'll go into the middle of the field where Saul is and I'll plunge a sword through him and David's like, no, you don't have to kill him.
He's the guy who always wants to kill people.
But he's also a guy that wherever he is, warriors are being trained everywhere he goes.
Here's what we see.
Verse 18, Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zoriah was chief of the three.
He raised his spear against 300 men whom he killed, and so he became as famous as the three.
Was he not held in greater honor than the three?
He became their commander even though he was not included among them.
You see, here's how David's army worked.
He had these 30-plus mighty men with these commanders.
He had a general named Joab, but then he had a
30,000-person standing army that were professional soldiers.
And then a million-man army that he called for big battles.
And it was this smaller group that led the whole thing.
And Abishai was always at the center.
So maybe if you remember that name Abishai, you remember this from a couple of chapters ago.
Because David wasn't the only warrior back in the day who killed a giant.
In Second Samuel chapter 24, men are named that kill giants of their own.
And the first one, his name is,
Abishai, he saves David's life as a mighty word from Bilestia tries to kill David, but not just Abishai, Sibakai, Al-Hannan, and Jonathan.
And so, Abishai is in the mix, training men to be mighty warriors, to kill giants of their own.
That's why the Bible says one generation commends the work of God to the next.
We're going to tell these stories
And we're going to sing these songs, and we're going to watch a new generation of giant killers emerge.
And this is still true today.
God is calling men and women to pass on the faith that they know in God, the experiences they've had in God, the courage, the faith, and to watch their kids in the next generation grow up and take the mantle and kill giants of their own.
Is anybody with me today?
This is the call of the church, the call of what it means to be a Christian.
Now, you might be thinking,
I got this whole thing with blood and battle and killing the spears, like I'm trying to raise a two and four year old.
I mean, this is not really helpful.
Listen, Shama and J.B. Nellieza, they were famous in our household.
Our kids knew these names because these stories formed what it means to be a man, what it means to stand, what it means to defend, what it means to fight, what it means to be courageous, what it means to live in faith.
Listen to this, Psalm 127 is written for moms.
and dads, and the word gibo ream is in this Psalm, Psalm 127, like arrows in the hands of a gibo ream.
Our children born in one's youth, blessed is the man whose quiver is full of them.
Now maybe you're raising a two-year-old and you're just tired.
You're tired of cleaning up messes and getting four hours of sleep and trying to work two jobs and trying to keep it all together.
You're like, I'm just exhausted.
Listen, you are raising a mighty man, a woman of God, you just don't know it yet.
And the more kids you have, the more quivers are in.
And my arrows are in your quiver, and you're about to want them.
How many times does David write, God is a mighty warrior.
And when he pulls an arrow out of his quiver, he fills the sky and he fights against the enemy.
Listen, if you have a house full of kids, you are training mighty warriors for God.
Don't ever lose sight of that.
And listen, before I was the lead pastor here,
I was like the family pastor.
I saw the kids church and our middle school and high school and college age and work with kids and foster care, finding homes.
It's something beautiful about watching this intergenerational discipleship that happens to this church.
Because right now, if you went to Calvary Kids and watch what's happening, you'll see a fifth grader helping to lead some of the second and third graders in their relationship with God.
You'll see middle school kids running sound and helping to train those younger kids.
And then you go to middle school.
And you see high school leaders helping the kids in middle school.
You go to high school and you see college kids, discipling high school kids.
Intergenerational discipleship, warriors are not born.
They are made, right?
And listen, we want to be the people who join the quiet revival that's happening right now.
We see this amazing drawing back to faith and to the gospel.
And we don't want to be the people who just ignore it.
We want a fan.
those flames of our young people.
And so as you think about, what does it mean to train our young people?
Listen, if you're a parent, how do I teach my kids to pray?
How do I teach my kids what services?
You know what?
On your way out, grab one of those bags for food share, go to Publix, fill it up, and save your kids.
We're gonna help feed hungry families, and we're gonna distribute this in a couple of weeks, and we're gonna share the gospel.
People, we're gonna invite them to church, and we're gonna watch what it means to care for people all around us who are less fortunate than us.
You're training.
Mercy, compassion, prayer, service.
It's a beautiful opportunity to raise mighty warriors.
And here's the simple process of discipleship.
This is what Jesus taught us.
Jesus looked into the disciples and he would say this, follow me and I will make you.
In other words, the 12 disciples weren't born to be Christian.
They weren't born to be disciples.
They had to be trained to be disciples.
And here was the simple formula that Jesus used to train
his disciples.
I do, and you watch, just watch me.
Now I'm gonna do this, now you help me.
Now you do it, and I'm gonna help you, and then you do it, and I'm just gonna watch you do it.
Simple process.
So here's my question, who are you doing this with right now?
Oh, and if you're not, there's a beautiful opportunity, because once you get it,
You won't forget it.
So my wife and I, we had this group that meets at our house.
It's a young adult between like 25 and 30.
And I distinctly remember this conversation.
Sitting in my kitchen after the group, I was talking to a kid named Tony, young guy.
And I said, Tony, how'd you get here?
He's like, well, I was invited by Vaughn.
And Vaughn was invited by Derek.
And so he thought when I got invited by Yvonne, who was invited by Derek, I thought to myself, who should I invite?
So I invited Joe.
And I was like, this guy got it.
I mean, you have to be a Christian for like a week or two and you figure out, wait, someone invited me and then I invited someone else and that person invites someone else and that's how it works.
This is how mighty warriors are trained, get in close proximity with other people.
Here's how Paul describes this in the New Testament.
The things you've heard me say in the presence of many witnesses entrust to reliable people who will also be qualified to teach others.
Watch this.
Paul invites Timothy.
Timothy invites someone to follow him and that person invites someone to follow him or her.
Four generations of discipleship.
What would happen if this week, every one of you invited one person to church.
What would next week be like?
Someone comes to know who Jesus is, their sins are forgiven, they have lots of questions.
I've got so many questions, I think for coffee, let's have a conversation.
What would happen if you invited someone to your small group?
There's an extra seat on the couch, there's an extra chair in the conference room, wherever you meet.
You see the gospel's about inviting.
Come and follow me and I will make you.
I will train you.
As I'm being trained, I'm gonna invest in you.
And this is how the church grew.
And this is what we see happening.
with David's mighty man, warriors teaching other warriors how to fight.
And now, possibly my favorite warrior of all, a man named Ben and I.
Let's look at verse 20.
Ben and I, the son of Johoda, a valiant fighter from Cabsil, performed great exploits.
He struck down Moab's two mightiest warriors.
He also went into a pit on a snowy day and killed a lion.
And he struck down a huge Egyptian.
Although the Egyptian had a spear in his hand, Ben and I went against him with a club.
He snatched the spear from the Egyptian's hand and killed him with his own spear.
Such were the exploits of Ben and I, son of Jehoida.
He too was as famous as the three mighty warriors.
He was held in greater honor than any of the 30, but he was not included among the three.
And David put him in charge of his bodyguard.
How many of you have been an eye to be your personal bodyguard?
Dude, this guy.
I mean, everyone else got like one story.
He got three stories.
First, he kills two Giba Reem from the Mobide Army.
I'm not sure if it was two on one or one at a time, but either way, killing two of those guys is pretty impressive.
And then the next one, he sees a lion in a pit on a snowy day.
Now, this sounds a little bit crazy,
Lions are supposed to stalk people, but Ben and Ia stalks the lion.
Listen to me.
Pay attention.
Lions are supposed to stalk people, but Ben and Ia stalks the lion.
Think about that.
That's the mindset of a gibberim.
He's not like, oh, that lion is not my problem.
Oh, that lion gets out of the pit.
He could get one of our men, he could get one of our wives, one of our kids.
So I'm gonna not say that's not my problem, that's someone else's problem.
I'm gonna risk my own life.
I'm gonna be proactive, I'm gonna go toward the danger.
This is the mindset of a gibbering, but my favorite story of all is the last one.
He goes against an Egyptian gibbering, a gibbering, a mighty warrior.
He's got this massive weapon.
He goes against this guy with a club.
I mean, if you're watching, he's like, oh, I can't watch.
He grabs the weapon out of the Egyptians hand and kills the guy with his own weapon.
I don't know, that makes me excited.
It's just kind of a cool scene.
I mean, I want to see this in a movie.
You see, often, as Christians, we're intimidated by evil, by problems, by things that are too big for us.
And it just makes us want to just, I can't.
There's no way I could win that battle.
I tried something hard before, and we could just sort of live our lives in resign.
That's just the way the world is.
Nothing I can do.
It's bigger than me.
And we just live this paralyzed, small life.
Don't take risks, just keep it here.
And if we're honest, if you're honest with yourself, maybe you'd be like,
That's me, honestly, if I would describe my Christian life in one word, it would be this, it's boring.
And the reason it's boring is because the Christian life, again, is more than just an hour and a half on a Sunday and singing a few songs.
And see, Christianity's not a spectator sport.
Jesus says, the kingdom of heaven has been forcefully advanced and forceful people lay hold of it.
They walk toward the danger.
They take great risks for God and Ben and I, gives us this image.
I mean, what would it be like
to take the weapon out of the enemy's hand and hurt him with it.
So where is the enemy at work right now in our world?
You know, one of the main places I see the enemy work?
Right here.
Four to five hours a day, people gaze into the glowing rectangle.
And they see conspiracy.
and outrage and sexuality and narcissism.
And it sucks the life out of them.
It drains the energy, the creative space out of them.
It caused them to go in all these different directions and do all these different things and feel lonely and
and shameful, and the enemy is using this in great ways.
And it would be so easy to say, you know, this is the enemy's territory.
We're just going to surrender it.
Let him fill the vacuum.
I don't know what good can come out of something like this.
But you know what Gibberim do?
They say, this ground does not belong to the enemy.
We're going to step forward and say, not on our watch.
We're going to fill the vacuum with the kingdom of God and His Word.
And I'm so grateful that this church has stepped forward, not just in physical spaces at 10 campuses, not just in global missions, but on the digital space.
I want to show you a picture of what the men and women of this church are doing going after people online.
I mean, right now, you might know this, but there's over 5,000 people watching this service online here and all around the world.
And people every week are making decisions to follow Jesus as they watch online.
Not only that, our teams are writing
digital U version plans, 4.5 million plans, over 2 million complete.
That means people are actually reading and checking this off as a process.
8,000 monthly visits to our resource page, meaning when people ask the question, how do I know I'm a Christian?
How do I raise my kids?
What if I feel depressed?
What do I do?
And they're finding answers from God's word because there are digital missionaries putting content out there that when people are looking for hope and looking for truth and looking for meaning, they will find it.
We're taking the enemy's own weapon and we're hurting him with it because we are the mighty men and women of God.
God is still writing all these stories.
We have a virtual reality room, campus, right now where people are watching us on VR with their avatars.
And this all started because there was a man named Marcos.
Marcos was 22 and he became a follower of Jesus.
And he said this simply, God, use me.
And so in the early days, he's like that nerdy kid who's not playing football, but he's coding and doing all this stuff and trying to figure it out.
He just knows that God wants to use him in this space.
He comes here and he's like, you know, I met my wife in this online platform.
She wasn't a Christian.
I led her to the Lord and now we got married.
And I want to see that happen over and over and over again.
He's dug the people who are on these VR goggles for eight hours a day.
They're lost.
They're lonely.
They're looking for hope.
And I want to bring the gospel to this place.
And so we launched this VR ministry on the first day, which is a test November, 2020.
And we just tested it with the VR goggles.
It was all messy.
And on that day,
We experienced the first person who became a follower of Jesus because Marcos stepped into this space.
His name is Kim.
He lives in South Korea.
And this is where an idea that God put in Marcos's head became a reality.
And now 6,000 people are watching these services online.
I just want to tell you one of their stories because you know, Jesus is still writing stories and we're saying, do it again, do it again, do it again.
So this is Diane's story.
She writes this, my name is Diane, and I live in South Yorkshire, England.
I'm a full-time mom with a son who has autism.
I believed in God, but for a long time, I couldn't find a church community that felt right for us.
Six months ago, I bought a VR headset, not really knowing what to expect.
I joined a room and I found Calvary Chapel Fort Lauderdale in VR, and I am so grateful.
I love the weekend services, especially the teaching.
I love the way that Calvary explains the Bible and helps me make sense of it.
I've also joined other Bible studies so I can learn by myself and teach my son.
If it weren't for Calvary VR, I wouldn't be able to get to church the way I do now.
But through this ministry, I feel like I belong and I'm able to grow in my faith.
So to the Calvary team, I just want to say thank you.
You've made such a difference in my life.
And Diane, we're grateful to be speaking the word of God
to you all the way from South Florida all the way to England.
And this is just one story.
I wanna tell you another story of a mighty warrior at this church, her name is Shara.
And Shara, she goes to do a jail every week that's just a few miles from here.
And she shares the hope of Jesus to women who are incarcerated.
And she got this idea.
Well, there's this app
that people who incarcerated can put on their tablet is called the Pando app.
And they can actually watch the services that are happening here.
And so she had this idea of technology, you know how to figure it out, but she, she went to present this idea and she got to know.
Have you ever had a really good idea and you're so excited and then you get to know?
And most people when they get to know say, well, I tried.
Shara didn't stop asking, didn't stop knocking.
And so she asked again and again, until finally someone said, yes.
And now this Pando app, well, we've seen tens of thousands of people watching our services online.
Over 300 this year gave their life to Jesus because there was a woman who was so persistent to say, in a place of darkness, we need to bring the light of Jesus, right?
So check this out.
Three weeks ago, four weeks ago,
A man walks forward when we give the altar call.
He meets me in the back room and he says, excuse me Pastor Doug, can I say this?
I've been watching you for months in jail and this is my first weekend here and I want to know you've impacted my life.
I want to tell you Robert's story.
I was raised in church and I dedicated my life to Jesus at 14.
But I chose the path of disobedience, and I found myself in trouble.
Over the years, I was incarcerated six times by longest sentence, 20 years, six months.
And still, I continued to rebel against authority.
In 2022, I was incarcerated in the Lake City, Florida.
This time, I had reached the point of exhaustion, tired of living the same old cycle.
I began attending church services in the dorm,
When one of the men introduced me to Calvary Chapel Fort Lauderdale through the Pando app, the ministry I discovered there was powerful, and through it, I rededicated my life to Christ.
But after being released, I slipped back into old patterns violated by probation, was sent back to prison.
While incarcerated, I faced a traumatic event just 45 days before my release.
Once out, I isolated myself, I struggled with PTSD and depression,
But by God's grace, I entered a treatment program in Pompano, Florida, where I attended Calvary Chapel on a Saturday night, the night I met Robert.
That first experience inside the church was unforgettable.
The love and welcome I received were overwhelming.
Today, I can truly say, I am a child of God.
He has healed me, I no longer live under the weight of PTSD or depression.
God is so good.
Just one.
One.
of thousands of stories.
Because a man named Marcus and a woman named Shara said, the kingdom of God is forcefully advanced and forceful people lay hold of their people in darkness that need to be saved.
And if we have to take the enemy's own weapon and use him against him, so be it because this is a space that belongs to God.
And we're going to use it to reach people with the gospel.
And we just want to celebrate that tenacity, that mindset of a mighty warrior.
So I want to show you back that graphic again.
I mean, Marcus will tell you, over 500 people have made a decision to follow Jesus in VR.
But he says this, there are 45 million of these VR goggles in the world.
That means 45 million souls who don't know Jesus yet, who could.
And we want to build out these platforms.
See, as we think about this vision for the future, we're not just building physical spaces.
building digital platforms because so many people are looking online to find truth and find hope and find meaning.
And what would it mean if all of our church came together to build these platforms for people who are incarcerated, for people who have VR dogs, for people who are living in this space where they're isolated.
And that's why this is so important.
We're going to give you this as you walk out and we're going to ask you to sacrifice for the kingdom of God.
We're gonna ask you to fight with us in prayer and with generosity and with creativity and with ideas as we reach past the four walls of this church to reach people who don't know Jesus.
And as you pray, as my wife and I have prayed, what is Jesus' worth to me?
What does sacrifice look like?
We pray that every person participates in this.
It's not about the amount, it's about the heart because in two weeks we're gonna take these commitments that we make to God and we're gonna place them here as an active worship to say, Jesus,
We're not just going to play defense.
We're not just going to sit and be consumers.
We're going to go after the one in Jesus' name.
We're going to invest.
We're going to pray.
We're going to serve.
We're going to go out and love people, the gospel of Jesus Christ.
This is what it means to be a Christian.
And we're inviting all of us to do this together.
Church, are you with me?
This is what it means to be a mighty warrior in the house of God.
Now back to where we started.
What type of legacy are you gonna leave?
You know, David's life is summed up in one sentence in the New Testament, all that we read, all these chapters, all these stories, summed up in one sentence.
Here's the sentence.
David served God's purpose in his generation, and then he fell asleep.
Imagine such a simple sentence to describe the legacy of King David.
He served God's purpose in his generation
And then he fell asleep.
I hope they say that about me.
I hope they say that about you.
You served God's purpose in your generation.
And then you fell asleep.
You see, we have this great legacy of men and women who brought the gospel to us, who brought God's word to us, who invited us to church, who built this whole place.
And we enjoy it today.
Now we want to ask the question, God, how do you want to use this to reach the next generation?
Paul writes this to Timothy.
He's like, at the end of his life, I've poured out my whole life.
I fought the good faith.
And now I know there's a crown waiting for me.
And you know, when we die and we go to heaven, there's still going to be telling stories and there's still going to be singing songs.
When you look at the end of the book, they're going to be singing songs like this.
Worthy is the lamb who is slave.
He is the king who is worthy of honor and power and dominion forever and ever.
Amen.
We're going to worship the king and sing a new song in heaven.
It's going to be a great day and we'll all be able to sing by then.
It'll be great.
We'll also be telling stories about how we overcame the enemy.
Look at this line from the book of Revelation.
They triumphed over him by the blood of the lamb and by the word of their testimony.
Why do we know we are victorious in the end?
It is the blood of our King, Jesus, who died in our place that gives us forgiveness and new life and power to live.
This is what Jesus has done for us, and no one can take it away.
Are you grateful, Church?
The power of our testimony.
Here's what he did in my life.
Here's what he did in your life.
This is how we overcome the enemies of church.
Let's not be on defense.
Let's stand our ground.
Let's forcefully advance the kingdom of God.
Let's invite our neighbors, our friends.
Let's pray bold prayers and do hard things because our king is worthy and in the end we share his victory.
Church, let's give him praise one more time and let's pray.
Jesus, this applause, this praise is for you.
You are worthy of our whole life, our best effort, our resources.
Jesus, I pray that you would draw us deeper and love you.
Our heart would be so close to you, we would hear you whisper, who will go, who will I send?
And we would say, Jesus, send me, I'll go.
And by the way, pray for anyone here in this room who doesn't know your love, that you would draw them even right now by your grace, and we pray this in Jesus' name.
Hey, so before I say amen, you're gonna have a chance to practice something called intercession.
Intercession means you pray
For God to be at work, in a space, in a people, and God hears your prayers and answer.
Because for some people in this room, this would be the most important five minutes of your entire life, of your eternity.
Because in a moment, we're gonna invite you, if you don't know Jesus, you can know him.
And some people are gonna go from this pathway that's ascending on their way to hell, to a pathway that will ascend to heaven.
They're gonna go from
darkness to light from futility to this deep sense of faith and purpose.
And it's going to be that moment where Jesus shapes your heart.
You see, Jesus wasn't shy about telling the truth that evil is real, that the devil is real, that there's an enemy who comes to steal and to kill and to destroy, to shape or to store it your view of God and yourself and the world to make you focus on yourself and to try it all yourself.
And you feel
aimless and lonely and sometimes a shame and you have doubts.
Is God even real?
Maybe he's real for them, but not for me.
Maybe there's something wrong with me.
Maybe I've gone too far or too long or maybe I've tried too many times.
He wants to get in your head to confuse you that you can't connect with God, that somehow you don't need him or you're not worthy of him.
This is what he does.
It's the mind games he plays.
That's what it did for me for years.
But Jesus would say, no, I've come from heaven to earth.
I am the way.
I'm the truth.
I'm the life.
I've come to pay your debt of sin, to die in your place so that you can have a way to come back to God.
Your sins can be forgiven.
You can go from being an enemy of God, to being a friend of God, to being part of his family, to being adopted as a son or a daughter.
But it's your choice.
As David wrote in his final song, there are people who long for the king and long for God's goodness and people who go, no, thank you.
I'll do it myself.
I don't need God.
And that's the difference between heaven and hell.
Between standing before God and saying, I'm with Jesus and coming in or standing before God all by yourself and hearing, depart from me.
I don't know you.
And the beautiful thing about a legacy is if you don't like the legacy that you have right now, you can change it in a moment in an instant.
And that's what this moment is about.
We affectionately called an altar call and this room is filled with people who've experienced this transformational moment with Jesus.
And they're praying for you right now.
If you were invited by a friend, it's because they love you.
They care for you.
They want to see you experience the fullness of life and the promise of eternity.
So if you don't know that you know, that you know, that if you died today,
You'd be with Jesus in heaven.
You can know that for certain.
The Bible says these things were written so that you can know that you have eternal life.
It's not this deep mystery.
It's a heart that's ready to say, God, I've done it my way for so long.
I wanna give my life to you.
I wanna repent.
I wanna change the way I think.
And you receive the gift of salvation.
And so we're gonna play a song.
This entire church will be praying.
And if you know this is you, I'm going to ask you to do something brave to stand up wherever you are and to walk this way.
And we're going to pray a simple prayer with this altar.
And you're going to experience a new life in Jesus.
And that may seem like a very intimidating thing to step up in front of all these people, but when you stand up, people are going to begin to applaud because we know what that was like for us.
And we want this so
So if that's you and you know, God is calling you.
I'm gonna ask you right now, stand up wherever you are and walk this way.
And we will celebrate with all of heaven as you come.
Come now.
He's waiting for you.
So when I fight, I fight on my knees.
With my ends, it did high.
We don't come.
The battle belongs to you.
Every fear I have.
They are your feet.
I'll sing through the night in Olga.
That'll belong to you.
So when I fight, I fight all money.
With my ends he did high.
Olga, that'll belong to me.
Every field I, they are your feet.
Come on up.
We're so glad you're here.
We celebrate with all of heaven as you come.
Come on, there's still time.
Freedom is this way.
New life is this way.
Forgiveness is this way.
So you're about to say the most powerful words that will ever come out of your mouth your entire life as you make your confession, that you're a sinner.
that you need to save you.
And God's forgiveness flows from this confession.
As you say, I believe Jesus, you came from heaven earth, you died in my place and you were risen and now I put my faith in trusting you.
Now everything you've ever done, all the guilt of your sin, all the shame of your sin, he takes from you.
And he begins this work of new redemption, new creation, a peace that the Bible says transcends understanding.
Doesn't mean you don't wake up tomorrow with problems.
Doesn't mean you never sin again.
It means that now you feel conviction of sin.
You desire us to walk with him and live a way that honors him to take his word as your God.
And this is just day one of the greatest adventure of your life.
And so we're going to pray with you in a moment, but I just want to take one more moment because I know what it's like to wrestle back and forth.
I did this for weeks before I made a decision to follow Jesus.
And listen, if you're waiting for the perfect time to follow Jesus, there is a perfect time.
The Bible calls it today.
Today is the day of salvation.
Not tomorrow, tomorrow never comes.
If you sense the call of God, if you sense the wrestle of God, if you wish you were up here, but you don't have the courage, just step into the aisle, you're already standing up and join the men and women who are here because he loves you and this is your moment.
Welcome.
Welcome to the family of God.
And that's just, I feel like there's one person just rustling, so I'm just giving one more minute.
We're not gonna sing another song, but if you're battling right now, come on up.
So glad you're here.
Those of you who are online are in VR, you can pray this with me.
If you're ready, just say this to God.
Say this, Lord God, I open my heart and I invite you inside.
Forgive my sin.
Today, I repent.
Now, fill me with your spirit and I will walk with you all the days of my life.
Pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Amen, guys, congratulations.
Welcome to the family of God.
So before you go back to your seats, I'm going to ask you for five more minutes.
You just made the most important decision of your life.
And we want to help you on the journey.
So I'm going to ask you to follow me over to that room where that door is going to open.
You'll be back with your friends in five minutes.
Church, let's give them a hand as they go this way.
And let's close in a song, a battle song to our King Jesus.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know, here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word belief to 31352 so you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit calvaryftl.org.